Welcome to "Why Open Source Software Matters."
After watching this video, you will:
Understand why open source software should matter to you as an individual contributor.
Understand why open source software should matter to your company.
Understand the current trends around open source software among developers and hiring
managers.
So as a developer, why should you care about OSS? Open access to the implementation of key
technologies provides a fast learning opportunity to you as a developer.
The open source community helps developers grow their knowledge through an ecosystem
of support. This is especially important if you are  beginning your coding journey.
Open Source gives you a chance to build an eminence in the community. Open source
communities are the premier interactive hubs for developers where they can “demonstrate”
their subject matter knowledge and skills.
Most companies will adopt an open hybrid cloud approach. Open source skills are more
transferrable across the developer community and ecosystem.
As a candidate who understands Open Source, you have more options and opportunities as
all major enterprises are using some kind of open source software.
A newly published survey conducted in the fall of 2020 by O’Reilly Media, commissioned
by IBM, suggests that instead of focusing on skills related to a specific vendor’s
cloud, developers would be better off building skills around the open source technologies
that underpin those clouds.
Here are some highlights from the survey, to which over 3,400 developers and technology
managers responded.
Open source software (OSS) was rated equal to or better than proprietary software by
94% of respondents.
70% of respondents prefer cloud providers based on open source.
65% of developers preferred skills related to the underlying open source technologies.
Additionally, 65% of developers agree completely that contributions to open source projects
impress potential employers and result in better professional opportunities.
Similarly, the Linux Foundation’s 2020 Open Source Jobs Report pointed out that
93% of hiring managers report difficulty finding sufficient talent with open source skills,
up from 87% in 2018.
The report also notes that hiring managers report knowledge of open cloud technologies
has the most significant impact, with 70% being more likely to hire a pro with these
skills, up from 66% in 2018.
Open Source Software provides many benefits to the enterprise. The top three are:
Speed of innovation through the community model. The code your company needs and are
asking your developers to write has probably already been written and is available in
an open source community.
Potential cost savings in development, documentation, bug fixes and testing.
Although these benefits exist, open source integration and maintenance is not free.
Many start down the path to open source and then realize they need help.
Enterprise companies want interoperability and freedom from vendor lock-in, as well as
successfully supporting hybrid and multi-Cloud deployments.
Here are some of the other benefits of adopting open source in your organization in the way
of starting a project or contributing back to existing open source projects:
The product team gets to interact directly with the end users;
The community becomes aware of project roadmaps;
You get to keep pace with competitors;
Increase software security and reliability;
Enhance business agility and time to market;
Influence direction of technological development.
In this video, you learned that:
Open Source can help you advance your software development career.
Open Source-based solutions are vital to the success of enterprise companies.
Open source skills are in demand and developers strongly prefer open source to proprietary
cloud platforms.